Hello everyone, My name is S.B.Mukesh. Today I will explain how I created a "Movie ticketing bot using IBM Watson Assistant.". Firstly, let us see what a chatbot is. A chatbot or chatterbot is software that can help customers with automated conversations and interacting with them through messaging platforms. Let us understand why we need IBM Watson Assistant and its alternatives. Watson is an IBM supercomputer that combines artificial intelligence (AI) and sophisticated analytical software for optimal performance as a "question answering" machine. And it's alternatives are Google Cloud Dialogflow by google, Amazon Lex by amazon, Azure bot service by Microsoft, and so.
Now, let us see the preview of the "Movie ticketing bot" I created. Initially, the bot asks for the movie that customer wants to book for them. Immediately, based on the movie selection and the language, the location preference is also requested. After that, the bot also question's the number of seats the customer wants to reserve for them. After the response given by the customer, the bot requests the date on which the client would like to watch.
See here it is asking for confirming the date too. And a point to mention is that this bot is designed so that if the entered date is before today, it would again ask for the appropriate date. It continues this task until the client mentions a valid date. The bot states that the tickets are available at INOX theatre. In addition, it puts forward the timing preference for the movie also, and we are almost done. Now, it's time for the verification of the phone number. I had entered my phone number. And quickly, it asks for the OTP that has sent my phone number for verification. Since the OTP was not sent originally, I had defined the response for the OTP as any number. So, let's give 1234 and send. Since the OTP is valid, my phone number is verified successfully. Now, the bot states that the payment details have been sent to the verified phone number. Finally, to get customer feedback, a question is designed. As I am comfortable with the chatbot, I would say "Yes.". And in this manner, the movie ticket booking is made.